# Custom styles

[[Global vs local component namespace]]

While Livewire autocomplete component comes with some default styles, to make getting up and running easier, it is also flexible and allows you to add your own styling to match your app.

All components have an `unstyled` prop that can be passed into to remove all default styling.

`x-autocomplete-item` has a couple of extra styles that need to be added `active`, `inactive`, `disabled`.

All components accept a `class` prop to add any custom styling.

`x-autocomplete-input` and `x-autocomplete-list` both also have a `containerClass` prop to allow you to style the container elements directly.

## Using custom components for styling
Instead of having to repeat custom styles, every time you implement the autcomplete component, we recommend creating custom blade components that wrap up the components from this packaged.

To do this we recommend disabling the global namespace in the autocomplete config by setting `use_global_namespace` to `false`. See [[#Namespaced components]].

By disabling the global namespace, it allows you to create your own component with the same names. So in your `resources/view/components` directory, create a new directory called `autocomplete`.

Inside that directory create the following files:
- index.blade.php
- autocomplete-empty.blade.php
- autocomplete-input-prefix.blade.php
- autocomplete-input-suffix.blade.php
- autocomplete-input.blade.php
- autocomplete-item.blade.php
- autocomplete-label.blade.php
- autocomplete-list.blade.php
- autocomplete-loading.blade.php
- autocomplete-new-item.blade.php
- autocomplete-prompt.blade.php

Let's look at the `autocomplete-input.blade.php` to see how to implement them.

If we open `autocomplete-input.blade.php`, inside it we can now reference the Livewire autocomplete namespaced input component:

```html
<x-lwa::autocomplete-input :attributes="$attributes" />
```

Next we need to add the unstyled attribute, to remove the default styling.

```html
<x-lwa::autocomplete-input :attributes="$attributes" unstyled />
```

Finally we can add any custom classes by passing them into the attributes bag.

```html
<x-lwa::autocomplete-input :attributes="$attributes->class('my-custom-class other-custom-class')" unstyled />
```

Now when we go to use our component, we can just reference `<x-autocomplete-input />` as per usual but our custom styles will be applied.

Finally all the remaining components that we created earlier need to be implemented.

Or if you'd still prefer to use some of the inbuilt components and not override them, you can always just reference the namespaced autocomplete components directly in your Livewire components.

## Auto-generate custom components using console command

Instead of manually creating all of the above components, you can automatically create them by running the following console command:

```bash
php artisan lwautocomplete:custom-components
```