# Installation

## Composer install
To install Livewire autocomplete run:

```bash
composer require joshhanley/livewire-autocomplete:dev-next
```

Once the composer install finishes, the next step is to configure Tailwind to look for the autocomplete components, so all the styles are generated correctly.

## Configure Tailwind
In your `tailwind.config.js` file, add the path to the autocomplete view directory to the end of the `content` array:

```js
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
    content: [
        ...
        './vendor/joshhanley/livewire-autocomplete/resources/views/**/*.blade.php',
    ],
    ...
}

```

And that's it, we have everything we need.

## Optional steps
> [!success] Not required
> The following steps are not required. You should only use them if you have a specific need for them.
### Publishing the config
Livewire autocomplete is designed so you shouldn't need to use the configuration.

But sometimes you might need to disable a default option.

To do this you can publish the config by running:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=livewire-autocomplete
```


### Disable inline scripts
The javascript assets for Livewire autocomplete are included automatically for you as part of the `x-autocomplete` component.

It includes the javascript file inline inside `@assets/@endassets` tags.

But sometimes you might want to include this script manually yourself in your layout file or in your `app.js` file. To do this, you will first need to [publish the Livewire autocomplete config](#publishing-the-config).

Inline scripts can now be disabled by setting the `inline_scripts` to `false` in the published `config/livewire-autocomplete.php` config file:

```php
'inline_scripts' => false,
```
### Manually including assets
If you wish to include Livewire autocomplete's scripts in your layout file manually, make sure you [disable inline scripts](#disable-inline-scripts) first.

Then you can add the following script to your `layouts/app.blade.php` (or which ever layout file you use):

```blade
<script src="{{ route('livewire-autocomplete.asset', 'autocomplete.js') }}"></script>
```
### Bundling assets
If you wish to bundle Livewire autocomplete's script in your `app.js` file, make sure you [disable inline scripts](#disable-inline-scripts) first.

Then you can include it along with [manually bundling Livewire and Alpine](https://livewire.laravel.com/docs/installation#manually-bundling-livewire-and-alpine).

```js
import { Livewire, Alpine } from '../../vendor/livewire/livewire/dist/livewire.esm';
import Autocomplete from '../../vendor/livewire-autocomplete/dist/autocomplete.esm'

Alpine.plugin(Autocomplete)
 
Livewire.start()
```
